Nowadays the idea of having an autonomous mobile robot is very important, due to its importance in different fields in our life. Currently, it is implemented in many fields as public transportation, delivery, private vehicles. For example, Estonia was on the of first countries to test the autonomous self-driving minibus in Tallinn the capital, and it is known that the tests were successful. Also, Estonia has been testing small robots in the streets of Tallinn for the food delivery and Posts delivery intentions, moreover, there are several states in USA that started implementing these robots in its streets for food delivery reasons. Therefore, it is essential to think of new methods for building, controlling and implementing such systems.
In this project, we are considering a navigation algorithm that drives a differentially driven robot from an initial point to the target point in a free space made up of triangles. This navigation algorithm relies on vector fields.
The idea of using vector fields is a great method for controlling objects, for its efficiency, time saving, and the easiness of its calculations. Also, in this method the robot’s free space is given to the control system as an input which make it fast for the robot to move from one place to another. It is worth pointing out that the mobile robot is moving in a set of intersecting triangles, through which it is simple to control the robot. In particular, the triangle has only three sides to consider rather than a polygon with a greater number of edges and thus more equations and more computing time and complexity. The concept of adding a vector to every side of the triangle ensures that the mobile robot will not deviate out of the specified boundaries in any given case. Furthermore, it is an important aspect that the transition between bisecting triangles is without obvious perturbations for greater stability and thus more safety.
Our results showed a great success of this control method as despite the obstacles size and position, the system was able to move in a free space from the start point to the last triangle in the chain of triangles while considering the kinematic constraints and maintaining its motion inside the boundaries of the triangles.
